## Penis with Ears

---

Plop.

12:30 Interview in Orange Room

Shit. I forgot...

“Hey Krish, we’ve got that interview now apparently”

“Oh”

We make our way to the Orange Room. Rooms in corporate offices are named after colours or car makes or any other vaguely relevant cultural reference. This is in an effort to make them sound like they are fun and inspiring places to be, like the fun and inspiring Ministry of Love in Orwell’s 1984. 

Unfortunately, calling it the “Capitalist Chokey” didn’t have the same ring to it.

“Is the sound working?”

“Yeah”

“You look massive on the screen. You look like a massive penis with ears”

I’m dying of laughter.

“Hello, hi. Can you guys hear me okay?”

I’m trying really really hard to compose myself.

“We can hear you okay yeah, nice to meet you. My name is [PENIS WITH EARS] Chris and this is my colleague [SLIGHTLY DARKER PENIS WITH BEARD] Krish. Can you start by [PLEASE DON’T BE A PENIS WHO’S WEIRD] telling us a bit about yourself?”

Does my brain have shitey-fecking Tourette’s? And why is my internal monologue Irish? I really hope I’m not talking in an Irish accent, this has happened in the past.

“Yeah sure, so I’ve been working in Data for about 8 years now and I’ve [NEVER] always wanted to work in the renewables sector since I’ve been predominantly [PERSISTING] working within [SOULLESS FINANCE THINGS] insurance so I’m currently looking for a career shift into [ANYTHING LESS BORING BUT WITH SAME MONEY] this industry, and I think what your company is doing is really [GOING TO PAY WELL] fun and inspiring and I [NEED A BUREAUCRATIC RETIREMENT JOB] would love to be part of your journey.”

Thank God I’m not the only one with Conor Mcgregor intermittently shouting the not-so-subtle truth when I speak.

---

I often wish that people release their little truth-telling Irishman into the wild every once in a while. However, I also remember being told

“There’s a name for people who are completely honest: autistic”

Knowing when to be honest and when to be tactful is one of the hardest things for me to get right. 

Perhaps I can use a heuristic like:

Does my honesty do more damage than good in the long run? 

Or maybe: 

Is it kind? Is it honest? Is it necessary?

At times I feel like I'm playing a game.

---

ULTRA GIRLFRIEND DODGER IV

Level 10

Loading...

Wife: “Do you think I’ve gained weight?”

Option 1: The fact that you have visibly and empirically gained at least 5 kilos by no means indicates that you have gained weight.

Option 2: You have gained a little bit of weight but I absolutely love it!

Option 3 (MASOCHIST OPTION): You’re looking more and more like your mother every day!

---

As much as I’d love to say what I think all the time, this penis with ears also really [FECKING] loves sleeping on a bed.



