## Water and Diamonds

“You can tell how underpaid you are based on how often you get thanked.”

---

It’s sad but true: the most societally beneficial jobs often are the least paid.

While appreciation is nice, you can’t exactly feed yourself on ‘thank yous’.

This phenomenon mirrors the classical economic conundrum known as the Diamond-Water Paradox. Despite water being essential to life and diamonds being, in all practicality, ornamental, the latter commands a significantly higher market price. This paradox extends into our job market and its reflection of societal values.

If you carry on this continuum which stretches from water to diamonds and beyond, on your far right sits a $91.8 million NFT. A picture of a white circle. You can't make this shit up. Apparently you can make millions by using the circle tool in MS Paint, absolute genius.

In the private sector, wages seem not to reflect a job’s societal value but are more closely tied to profit generation and replaceability. Consider this formula:

**Expected Salary = (Potential Profit Generation X Difficulty of Replacement) x Alpha Value**

Here, **Alpha Value** represents your ability to brownnose your way up the corporate hierarchy, whether that’s taking the hard path by sucking up to corporate, or the easy path (the other kind of sucking).

Working under this framework, we can categorise jobs into four quadrants based on profit and replaceability:

1. **High profit, easy to replace:** junior investment bankers, salespeople
2. **Low profit, easy to replace:** kitchen cleaners, warehouse staff
3. **High profit, hard to replace:** top-level lawyers, bankers, executives
4. **Low profit, hard to replace:** scientists, researchers

This (perhaps too) neatly explains why someone with a PhD and 10 years’ experience in scientific research can earn as much as an investment banker who is fresh out of uni. The banker's role, more directly linked to profit generation, is financially rewarded, irrespective of societal impact.

Contrastingly, public sector wages are decoupled from profit. The formula looks more like:

**Expected Salary = Whatever Amount The Government Decides to Give You**

## As a public sector worker you’re hoping that Rishi Sunak and his briefcase wanker mate Jeremy are feeling generous this year so that you can finally stop relying on food banks to feed yourself. Before you get your hopes up, remember that there’s a reason why Jeremy’s surname rhymes with the nation’s favourite swearword.

But Chris, why should I care about any of this? Don’t public sector workers expect to be undervalued and underpaid for the work that they do? At least they get to do something useful!

That’s a fair point, whoever you are.

My rebuttal is that … I’ve got a feeling. Perhaps you can call it a hunch … that as the years go by, we will slowly see a societal shift in how work and money is perceived. I think we will slowly shift away from being defined by our jobs and ranked based on how much money we make, but instead we will start admiring those who are contributing socially or creatively to the wider community.

I believe we saw a glimpse of this during the pandemic. All of sudden, many of us weren’t working anymore, collecting furlough payments and trying to find ways to NOT GO INSANE NOT GO INSANE NOT GO INSANE. After the first few weeks, we quickly got used to this new way of living, and it made many people really stop and think about how they are spending their lives. This sparked the so-called ‘Great Resignation’, a movement defined by people redefining their social contracts between work, value and life. Reevaluate, Resign, Redefine, Rejoice. For many, it was long overdue wake-up call, a chance to decide what “living the dream” really means.

Equally, we all saw just few ‘key workers’ there really are, and how much they truly matter. Perhaps you can say it put everything into perspective for the nation, and ignited a new social movement that had been brewing for a while.

There is, however, a dark side to this trend.

Movements like the ‘men going their own way’ (MGTOW) are a possible symptom of a broader disillusionment with conventional success metrics. It’s easier than every to ‘opt-out’ and escape into your own world. If there’s any trend that defines the 21st century it is the accommodation of ways of living and being. Whether it’s polyamory, gender fluidity, or abstinence (by choice, of course), there is a new safe space for everyone now.

I don’t think that women have gotten any choosier when it comes to picking a partner (although dating apps haven’t helped) but broadly speaking it’s easier than ever for men to stop ‘playing the game’. What better way to suck all motivation from a man than to provide him with a constant flow of money, entertainment, and sexual gratification. Let’s not blame women here, this is just a societal trend caused by our increasingly softening world.

Whether it’s good or bad is not up to me to decide, but I can’t help but think that all these societal trends are linked, and we are heading into a brave new world where our self-worth is slowly decoupled from our economic status. While this will liberate many from drudgery and potentially make important jobs more valued and better remunerated, I can’t help but also think of what we will lose along the way.

Economics dictates that diamonds are worth more than water. Yet, as we progress and our societal values change, perhaps the perceived worth of such luxuries will fade and go the way of DogeCoin. This shift should serve as a caution to today’s smug diamond miners revelling in their earnings, while giving a glimmer of hope to those who provide us with true diamonds – teachers, nurses, doctors, bin men, and retail workers. They should feel some comfort in knowing that, eventually, their jobs will be the only real jobs left.
